Hello everyone and welcome back this lecture we'll be discussing Django if static files and we'll learn
how to answer static media files.
So far we've used templates template tagging to insert a simple text but we don't always just want Tex.
What about other types of media for example returning a user's photo.
Let's go out and discuss static media files.
We're not yet at the point where we can connect to a database grab a user's photo and then insert it.
We are at a point where we can just grab a static media file and serve it to whoever happens to visit
the page to do this for going to create a new directory inside of the project called static just like
we did for templates then we're going to add this directory path to the project settings that PI file
that will also add a static l variable.
Very similar process to what we did with templates once we've done all that we need a place to store
static image files.
So underneath the static directory we'll go ahead and make a new directory called images and you can
go ahead and place a favorite topic file inside this images there victory or just download one off the
internet.
Then to test that this all worked once you set it up you should be able to go to a URL that looks like
this will be your domain slash static slash images and you should be able to pick up whatever pictures
you happen to save there and that will allow us to confirm that the paths are set up and connected properly.
But what we really want to do is set up a template tag for this.
So that line right there shows us that we have everything connected but then we're going to learn how
to actually inject that static media image using template tags and to do this inside NHT mail file we
need to add in a few specific tags.
So at the top of the ASTM file We're going to add this load to static files which basically tells Django
to load up the static files.
But keep in mind this line right here is going to go after that dock type HDMI line so that dock type
HD e-mail that's automatically created when we create makes the mail file make sure that always goes
at the top.
Otherwise you make it errors.
Now we'll walk you through this when we actually code this out then we're going to also do it insert
the image with an H T.M. image source.
So as you remember from the HCM lectures where we're actually inserting an image into HCM we use this
image tag but in this case for the source we're not going to provide a file path.
Instead we're going to use template text to actually inject static and then call the part of the file
path we need in this case will just be images pick up.
Or whatever your picture happens to be called.
And this will make a lot more sense when we actually code this out.
Now quick thing to notice is how this template said those curly bracket percent sign is a little different
than the double set of curly brackets.
We're going to be discussing and showing these differences more clearly in future lectures.
But for right now just consider those double curly brackets is being used for simple text injection
and we can actually use these curly bracket.
Percent sign template tags for a lot more complex injections and actual logic later on you'll see how
we can actually write a for loop using those template tags inside each TNL file.
OK let's cut through an example of serving up a static image and afterwards we can dive into models
and databases by moving on to Django level to point to jump to the Adam text editor to get started.
All right so here I am at the Adam text editor.
The first thing I want to do is just like we did of templates.
I'm going to create a new folder called static.
So right click the top level directory of first project like new folder or new directory.
Call it static and then inside of the static I'm going to do another folder and then call it something
like images and now we have the directory first project static images really similar to what we did
for the templates first at AMI.
Collapse some of these things.
All right the next thing we have to do is tell Django where to actually find static images.
In this case we edit the settings stop by file just like we did of templates so really similar process
here.
And then just like we did with templates we're going to use the estop half thought join we'll add a
little more to it.
In this case we will create a new variable and call it something like static underscore at the bar for
a directory for a static and then we will say OS path but join now I'm going to join that base their
victory just like we did last time with the string static.
So that leads just to this static folder here.
And then later on we can call images or actually dealing for template tags.
So this basically provides the absolute path to the location of that static folder inside of our project
or it's the next step is to scroll all the way down in your settings that PI file and you should notice
something that mentions static files right here.
And it also has a really nice link to the documentation on how to actually set up static files and you
see that we already have basically a pre-built variable static URL leading to static.
And that just allows you to use that for convenience.
But what we want to do is add another variable that will actually be able to take in a list of static
file directory paths and basically the reason for this is when you're dealing of your own applications
your own projects for this static folder you may not want something so simple as just static images.
You may actually want to take the approach through that of templates and have each application have
its own special folder and then within that folder put in your images.
So this may have been static first app images.
So just keep that in mind.
Let's show you how you can actually create a variable that will be the static files directories will
do something like static files all caps underscore the r s.
So static file directories is equal to.
And then this is going to be a list and here is we're going to pass in that variable we made earlier
if we scroll back to the top or close the top this static directory which is just joining the base the
victory of that static folder.
So coming all the way back down will passen here static directory
so we can put a comma there it's mixture that works with the multiple lines.
As a quick note you should always check to make sure that this static files underscore the IRS variable
doesn't already exist.
Sometimes some boilerplate code will already have it placed there for you.
So you want to check and it's possible and in future versions of Django that will actually create this
as an empty list to begin with.
When you generate a new project so keep that in mind you should always check to make sure you're not
overwriting a variable or at double defining it otherwise you're going to get confused and jingle We'll
also get confused.
So let's keep on going.
The next thing I want to do is to actually play some sort of JPEG file inside of this images folder.
So I'm going to do that.
I'll do that through just Windows Explorer or if you're on a Mac do that with finder.
So let me jump to doing that.
All right so I just did that through the finder.
You weren't able to see it.
So I was doing it on another monitor but as a quick little know I bring in my browser here.
I just downloaded this picture of Django.
This is the actual guitarist that Django is named after doing a Rheinhardt.
And then I put it into the images so go ahead and put in whatever JPEG file you want there and I'll
just put in Jingo for that.
OK let's go ahead and continue and with everything we have now we should be able to actually test out
and run the server before we do I just want to quickly review what these three variables recreated are
and the settings that PI file.
So scrolling back up here this static directory is just using the python OS module to actually join
the base directory to static and then scrolling all the way down to the very bottom.
We have the static file variables we have static underscore your L and if you're using an older version
of Django.
Make sure you manually place that in 1.9 and the above should have done this automatically for you and
you want to make sure you have the forward slashes above at the beginning and the end of that string
to definitely scroll the way down and make sure that's already been placed for you.
If not go ahead and copy this that underscore your L equals that string of static.
And then we have these static files underscore the IRS and that list and basically what's happening
is the two variables that we create is static Diyar and static files underscore they are referred to
locations on this computer were static files are being stored and then that final variable that was
already here that's static underscore you are l.
It's just going to allow us to specify the width which Thetic files can be accessed when we're actually
running or Django server.
So for example when you're actually running the server someone could go to your domain name slash static
slash and get access to static content.
If they're on the client side and we later on we can add protections to make sure not everyone can just
go and grab static content but let's just test this and make sure everything's working out.
I can do that just by saying Python actually looks CD into first project first and now I say Python
managed up.
I run server.
Enter it looks like it's running like I've done before I will just copy this and bring it to my browser.
So bringing in my browser I can see here.
The previous stuff we've worked on for the first project.
Hello this is index that is simple and now and coming from first app index.
Well what I want to do now is actually get to that static image.
So I will say this static
images slash and then type in Gengel guitar J peg or whatever your JPEG file happens to be named.
And here we have it the picture of Jingo.
And now we want to do is actually use template tagging to inject this image into an HD M-L file.
So as a user you're not going to be directly sifting through the static images just to find a JPA.
What we want to do is show this as if it was just a normal DML page that happened to have this image
injected into it.
So let's work on doing that.
So coming back to our templates page over here we have our first app and then we have that index HMO.
So now let's call this something like Django guitar page saved that and then I will say why this is
a picture.
Django himself and then we want to actually use template tagging for the injection or inserting that
actual material.
So I'm going to delete this.
Insert me remember those from the previous view that we were working of earlier and below this doc type
HVM.
I want to load static files and that basically allows Django to know hey we need to load some static
files here and that will save you time if you don't need to load static files.
That way you're not just always loading them.
So say load static files.
OK.
And again notice the different type of template tagging I'm using here.
So as a quick note I mentioned this in the presentation but you always want to make sure that the very
first line is this one block type H D M L otherwise the extremal codes going to get confused.
Then the next thing we want to do is to actually put in an image tag that will have the picture of Django.
So let's do that.
We have an image and the source we want to do is where we use the template tagging again.
So typically what we are doing in the H.M.S. of course is we're actually just hard coding the patent
there.
But now since we're using Django we can actually use template tagging to essentially inject the image.
So I say OK this is static.
And then as a string I'm going to say it's under images slash and my one is called Django guitar.
JP That's what my file is called.
And then finally I want to close that off and you may want to have something like an alternative here.
That's what he stands for so in case for some reason you're not able to load that JPEG it's always a
good idea to have some sort of alternative there so we can say like something like oh than a show.
So that way we can see at least something to know we actually were able to link this correctly.
So it's always a good idea to have an alternative that.
Knowledge check in back for our server and to make sure this actually all worked.
Going to grab my browser again and I will bring it over and notice right now my file path is at static
images.
Django guitar Jay peg if I delete all of this and go back to my home page that index page enter here
I have the actual wups you know it was to bring that guy back up.
And here he is just on the index page it says Hi this is a picture of himself.
And we were able to actually inject that image there so that static file.
And as another quick note I know I've been talking a lot about injecting static images but static files
don't just have to be images that can actually be basically any static file that's not going to change.
That includes things like CSSA and Javascript so those can be two files that are underneath your static
folder that are going to change.
And let me show an example of what that would actually look like.
So I'm going to exit this and under static let's make a new folder and call it something like see SS
and I'm going to make a new file here and call it I don't know.
My style of success and here is just give a quick style tag to Hetter one that where we know it's actually
working which means I'm going to say something like H-1 for one and then just make it obvious we will
put the color here something like red and then I'm going to say this.
So here I have my style that CSSA.
It's inside of my static folder so static reassess my style that's the SS and hopefully I can begin
to get an idea of the power of templates right.
Like I mentioned earlier there are a skeleton or scaffolding you're going to inject stuff in because
it's a sculpture scaffolding you can reuse them over and over again and just change things slightly
depending on the situation and you can call different static files into them.
Right now that CSSA.
Well let's go back to that index storage T.M. under templates and show you how you can actually now
call template tagging to insert the static file that's not an image but an actual CSSA file.
Which means back up here in the head of the HMS document.
I want to make sure I've already loaded static files and then I'm going to create a link and it will
be a stylesheet with the ref.
In this case going to remove the string and replace it with some template tags and I'm going to be using
the percent sign because I'm not just injecting simple text and then I call static and then passing
the string of where that CSSA is actually based.
Inside of that static folder.
So underneath static directory I have the CSSA directory and then underneath that I want to call my
styled SS And let's close off that 10 and make sure it's all working.
And as a quick note this should also be wrapped as a string which is why I wasn't looking correct earlier.
OK so I have a string within a string.
So these all tags here have those ready to go that we have static and we have the string inside of that.
Let's save this an restart our server to make sure it's actually picking up on that styles are going
to bring back in that browser.
And if I bring it back in we should see that the header has now turned red and that's the case size
picture jingle himself.
And we're actually connecting now a static CSSA file.
Perfect.
So we learned a lot of the power of static files and being able to inject them with template tags so
kind of a two for one here.
How do you use template tags that actually perform some sort of logic or object something that's not
just simple text and then also how to deal with static images and static files.
All right so hopefully out of this lecture you're really beginning to understand the sort of workflow
that develops with change so that you're creating a project creating applications linking views to your
Ell's dealing with the settings file in the way you need to.
And then more than just injecting a simple static image actually linking static using template tags
into whatever HVM elf files you're working with.
So hopefully you get an idea of the sort of workflow we're going to be developing as we move on to larger
and larger projects.
All right.
That is it for Gengel level 1 coming up in Gengel level 2.
We're going to learn about this basically third piece of the puzzle which is models and databases.
So a lot of times Shingo is known as an MTV framework with models templates and views and so far we've
only learned about templates in views.
It's time to get in that third puzzle piece with models and connect everything here to an actual database.
All right thanks everyone and I will see you at the next lecture.